# The Machinery Debug Utilities 

This plugin adds additional debug functionality for The Machinery projects.
It has two main component:
- The `tm_debug_utils_api` plugin
- The `symbols` executable

# Building

## Building with `tmbuild`

The Machinery build tool `tmbuild` is the easiest way to build:
- Copy `tmbuild.exe` from any [The Machinery release](https://ourmachinery.com/beta.html) into the main directory.
- Run `tmbuild.exe`.

## Building with `premake5`

You can also use [premake5](https://premake.github.io/download.html) directly:

**Windows and Visual Studio**

- Copy `premake5.exe` to the main directory.
- Run `premake5.exe vs2019` with the desired configuration. You could also use `vs2017`.
- Open the generated solution file `debug-utils.sln` with e.g. Visual Studio 2019


**Linux/Unix (with source code access)**

- Make sure you have clang installed and the build essentials of your distribution or system.
- Make sure you are using clang as your C compiler
- Copy `premake5` to the main directory.
- Run `premake5 gmake`
- All you need to do now is run with `make`


# tm_debug_utils_api

This API adds the ability to query debugging information on runtime.
The most useful function in this is:
```c
tm_debug_utils_api->try_decode_hash(uint64_t hash, struct tm_temp_allocator_i *ta)
```

This allows you to quickly pass a hashed string and the function will attempt to output the string that generated the hash, 
if it could not decode the hash then it will return the hash in hex form. Example usage:

```c
TM_INIT_TEMP_ALLOCATOR(ta);
tm_shader_repository_o *repo = tm_render_graph_setup_api->shader_repository(graph_setup);
tm_shader_o *shader = tm_shader_repository_api->lookup_shader(repo, user_data.shader_hash);

if (TM_ASSERT(shader, "Unable to find shader `%s`!", tm_debug_utils_api->try_decode_hash(user_data.shader_hash, ta))) {
	// ...
}

TM_SHUTDOWN_TEMP_ALLOCATOR(ta);
```

This function doesn't actually decode the hash, instead it searches for the hash in databases generated by the `symbols` project.
By default `tm_debug_utils_api` will search for these databases itself, but a search patch can also be specified with the function:

```c
tm_debug_utils_api->add_symbol_database(const char *path)
```

# Symbols

This project creates the hash databases consumed by the `tm_debug_utils_api`.
Various command line options can be passed to change its behaviour, but the most useful configuration is:

```
symbols.exe -g -i %TM_SDK_DIR%
```

This creates a hash database at the location of `symbols.exe` (by default in `%TM_SDK_DIR%/bin`), 
it will compute the hash for any literal string it can find in the entire The Machinery SDK directory.
This command can take several seconds, but only has to be executed once, or when new literal strings are added to the project.
For more information about `symbols.exe` run the following command:

```
symbols.exe --help
```
